---
layout: post
title: POV
---

Point-of-view is such a big deal in writing fiction, and different genres have their favorites. I find myself writing entirely in [third-person limited](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narrative_mode#Third-person_voices), sometimes omniscient, and I'm not sure why. I know I'm not generally a fan of first-person POV, it too often feels like a dear diary entry and also it generally makes me feel all jittery, rushed. Second-person sounds very specific to plot, and nothing I've thought of so far has made me even think of writing "you" all over the place. Recent Sf and fantasy stories, especially for children's and young adults, often do a lotttt of head-jumping in the third-person, within the same chapters even, so I'm used to to that and have seen it done very well and not so well. However, I was reading a [very interesting](http://rushthatspeaks.livejournal.com/510198.html) blog post about different types of reader and how this one reader is more of a kinesthetic and structural reader (vs. visual or auditory for example) and this in the comments struck me: "Also [the author Mary Gentle] never tells you what anyone thinks, only what you can reasonably infer from observation." 

Hey, what can I say, I'm a new writer, so little things can be revelations for me. I love the idea of this kind of conscious structuring - and it can really build from there, as you can see if you read the entire blog post linked above. But so, yeah, point-of-view can be third-person neutral. All "she" and "he" but without knowing what anyone is thinking. That to me makes the narrator all the more interesting - maybe they could have some thoughts that we see? Maybe they could infer other's thoughts? But then you have to ask yourself who they are, and then they have to be someone, don't they, or else the story is just a weird fragmented dream of something. Hm. Also, I love the boundary between real and fantasy, the real and science fiction - and in real life, I have no clue what anyone's thoughts are and often am bewildered by my own as well, so to structure a story more along the lines of reality and then mix it up with a healthy (or not so healthy) dose of fantasy or sfnal stuff is exciting. In a way, it would put me, the author, straight into the story as well, because I don't have to pretend I understand everyone's actions or motivation -- could be fun. I think I will give it a try.

Also, for the nth times, must read Mary Gentle. Argh, the list of books I want to read has entirely outstripped my lifepan's possible reading capability. It's depressing.

