---
layout: post
title: What I Know
---

So the tired adage is "write what you know." For years now, I've dismissed that idea as ridiculous and limiting, particularly as I'm most interested in reading and writing science fiction and fantasy which is inherently the exact opposite of what is known. However, I realized recently that it is absolutely true.

Maggie Stiefvater [wrote](http://maggiestiefvater.com/blog/artist-thief-an-excerpt-from-my-scbwi-keynote-for-those-who-werent-there/), "As he was telling me this story — which may or may not have been true — I was listening to him with my mind on record. I was getting ready to steal him. I used to steal the surface of a thing. I would have stolen that story of the barfight, for instance, and all the details around it, wholecloth. I would have recorded it as truthfully as I could imagine and I would’ve been proud of myself for accurately transcribing the human experience. But that’s bad thievery. Shallow thievery. Copying, not artistry. Now I know that when I’m stealing someone, it’s not their details I need. It’s their soul. I’ve learned to solve for x. To simplify to the essence." 

It's a bit overblown, but still it's basically what I figured out two days ago, except I stole myself. And phew, was that cathartic and fascinating and sad and nostalgic and all that. I can see why people get addicted to writing - it just gives you so much time to figure things out. Things that happened to you, to people you love, why you reacted that way, why they did, where do you stand on what happened, how could it have gone worse or better, and so on. I had two strong memories that just popped up, one from a dream and the other from a random line I read somewhere online, and I grabbed the moment both times and wrote two stories in one day. With the first story, it felt like cheating as it wasn't sf or fantasy, and it wasn't even made-up. It was just something that happened to me, something I did rather, years ago. I kept wondering if it even counted as writing. Towards the end I realized I could insert some sf elements and see where that takes me, and it was interesting but a bit awkward. Then, later that afternoon, another memory and it was so easy to imagine it science fiction that all I concentrated on was getting down the emotions, the images that stood out so clearly in my mind, the gestures, that kind of thing. That was exciting and felt absolutely like writing.

Both stories are not complete of course but there are good bones there on both of them, especially the second. It was quite a revelation for me though. I have a lifetime of memories to plumb and to allow myself that time to figure them out, well, that is just an amazing feeling. 