---
layout: post
title: Money
---

One thing that annoys me about writing and writers is this whole mystique of the writer. "I write because I would die if I couldn't write", "I knew the moment I touched a pencil that I would be an author", "I have to write every single day or else I will shrivel up and disappear", etc etc ad nauseum -- and I'm not even exagerrating, though, sure, those are made-up quotes. Sometimes I worry, thinking that the main reason I want to write is because I think I could be good at it and it's a way to make some money that doesn't include a boss, a daily commute, or a fixed schedule. I do *not* think it is easy, don't get me wrong, and sometimes I doubt whether I can do it at all. But the whole mysterious fog around the reason a writer writes.. bah humbug. 

In any endeavor, it seems to me, delve into it deep enough, and all the mysteries of the world and the mind and the heart can be found there. 

Also, I remember when I started studying a foreign language in college, all of a sudden it seemed that the language was *everywhere*, but of course it had always been there, I was just now looking out for it. So, there is some of that too with writers I think - the urgency that is so often applied to the idea of writing. Ideas and thoughts are constantly popping into *everybody's* heads, but once you start writing, then you notice them. 

..With all that said, once I am in it, I really like to write. It's surprising, which is the most unexpected thing. After all, my head is making these things up, how can that be surprising? Yet it is, over and over again. I like that a lot. But the main reason I keep trying to do this tricky thing, this writing thing, is because I need to make some money and I think I could be good at this. Those two reasons seem good enough to me. It remains to be seen whether they amount to anything or not.