---
layout: post
title: Sympathy
---

I'm currently reading Elizabeth McCracken's The Giant's House, about a librarian who falls in love with a boy with gigantism. The writing is what pulled me in, almost immediately, though the premise was good and thought-provoking. Without the writing, I would have stopped after a few pages, thinking hm, quirky..and my eye would wander and then I'd never pick up the book again. Done it countless times, and am resolved to do it more in the future, a complete reverse from my childhood where I felt obligated to finish any book I started.* Life is just too short, and getting shorter, so I have to be picky.

Anyhow, maybe there's a German word for that feeling where you get a book by a new-to-you author, and from the first page or four, you know you are in for a good read. You want to stop, get up and get a comfy blanket, get some snacks and a big glass of milk, that kind of thing. Is that due to voice? A persuasive opening hook? Etc? Nah. I mean maybe a little bit of those things we always hear about but, for me, for readers like me, mostly it's about word choice, about loving language and details and using metaphors in clever but not all-knowing obnoxious ways. It's something I need to learn. I can see it, feel it, but I can't write it yet. I get too jumbled up in words, they start sprouting all over the place, and I end up feeling like an elephant in a china room. This McCracken book (and maybe all her work, I will indeed read more) has such a good feel to it, wordy and thoughful, lots of meaning and layers to peel back and think on. About a quarter of the way through, I worried her writing was a bit twee, but then she surpised me (remember that!) and the feeling passed. 

Anyways, some quotes I liked:

"Despite popular theories, I believe people fall in love based not on good looks or fate but on knowledge. Either they are amazed by something a beloved knows that they themselves do not know; or they discover common rare knowledge; or they can supply knowledge to someone who’s lacking."

"But here’s the difference: she was ruined by love—that’s how she put it—while I was ruined by the lack of it. And the fact is when you’re flooded with something, you’re more likely to rot away, to disappear entirely, than if you dry up slowly. Ask the Egyptians, ask anyone."

"There is nothing I can’t make into a library in my brain, no objects I don’t imagine borrowing or lending out. Not out of generosity—I am a librarian, and protective—but out of a sense of strange careful justice. Part of me believes all material things belong to all people."

"But a library is a gorgeous language that you will never speak fluently. You will try every day of your life. Order is a certain clumsy grammar, a mnemonic device. Order just means: try to use verbs. Consider the tense. The poetry will follow."

They're attractive and intriguing and funny to me just as quotes, but in their context, in the story, they are flat-out beautiful.

Now though, I've reached the point where I am starting to worry about James, the giant of the story. It's a funny thing, that worrying. It's hardly logical, as the books takes place nebulously in the 50s-ish, so really, most of the people in the book would be dead today, in 2015. And of course there is the fact that they are all imaginary people! It's fiction. I know that. Still, I worry. ..And how does an author do that? I've read countless books, again from when I was young and feeling immortal, especially when it came to book-consumption, where the adventures were exhilirating, the worlds were fantastic, the hope they made me feel for getting older, exciting - but the characters? Too often I didn't really care. It was me there, not them? Or maybe they were just the camera lens? Or..? 

Here though, I care. I am not James, or Peggy, the librarian, and the world doesn't interest me much, and it doesn't make me feel hopeful - no, scratch that. It does make me feel hopeful, in that I recognize the feelings and thoughts Peggy, our narrator, feels and thinks, and that makes me feel less lonely in the world. Still, that doesn't lead to worrying. I'm not worrying about Peggy, or, as much as I like and empathize with parts of her, caring about her, but I am worrying and ultimately carrying about James. It's a tragedy, is that why?



* I stuck to that silly rule until I was eleven, so proud I could read anything even if I didn't understand half of it (i.e. with Anna Karenina, I didn't realize she'd died until years later..!) and then ran straight into Gulliver's Travels. Whomp. It absolutely defeated me. 