---
layout: post
title: Time
---

I used to have a book, maybe it's still somewhere in my old room, that had photographs of the ruins of a Roman villa, and over every photo, was a transparent page that showed what that part of the villa must have looked like in its heyday. You could flip back and forth between the two, seeing how that ruined set of stones used to mark a door or a hearth, and so on. For years now, I imagine wish for that same technique regularly when walking about a city, or visiting old places I used to know very well. I'm constantly wishing I could know what x looked like 20 years ago, 50 yrs ago, and then 200 yrs ago, and then even further back. Writing this down, I'm realizing it connects with my  seemingly-random interest in tectonic plates and continental drift and such. Basically: things are constantly changing and yet they are also still full of all that they were and are at this moment. In our heads, time is fluid in a way, and in the earth, it's fluid there too. It may not seem like it but it is.

In Ali Smith's How to be both, which I just finished, there's so much of that playing with dimensions, it's dizzying. I love it. She said about the structure of the book, that there is "the notion that no story travels alone, that there's always at least one accompanying story, without which you're only getting half." This here too is an example of something I read as an ebook and like so much I plan on buying a paper copy of it as soon as possible, so that I can hug it to myself whenever I want to. I agree with her when she says, "hen you hold a book you're also holding a tree in one form or another, and that direct connection lets me know how important books are in the world. Pages are called leaves, a spine of a book comes from the spine of the animal whose skin was used in the first books as covers; everything about books refers us back to the physical world. Not that ebook readers aren't useful for those of us whose eyes are getting worse with age. But the reading of a book - a physical book - lets us know how time is passing, and how we are passing time, in something more than percentage numbers." [link](http://www.theguardian.com/books/live/2014/sep/24/ali-smith-webchat-how-to-be-both) 