---
layout: post
title: Little Bits
---

So many writers suggest setting aside a specific time regularly, every day ideally, for writing - that the muse won't just show up when you want it to, but you need to get your head and hand ready for when it does. Something like that. Well, right now I just can't. Life is too complicated, there is just too much on my plate. Nevertheless I am determined to write so my 'writing process', if ever I'm asked, at least here at the beginning is this: when an idea jumps out, stop and write it down. Sometimes that means henpecking words out on my iPad, what a hassle, or scribbling away in a notebook or on a scrap of paper, but usually, thank goodness, it means opening up Scrivener or Simplenote and pinning that idea down. Maybe it's 200 hundred words. Maybe it's a thousand. Often it's less than a hundred. And then, I quickly open up my text editor for this site, update the little calendar in the sidebar to show that I wrote today, and oh is that satisfying. Later, when there's a little more time, a half hour while dinner cooks or whatever, I flesh the idea out. I find if I let my mind kind of sit on an idea, once the gist of that idea is captured, then when I go back to it, there's all of a sudden a lot more that wants to come out. It's fairly awesome.

So, I don't have a daily word count minimum, it's just: whenever I write, whatever I write, it counts. This month, so far, that has translated into writing aobut fifteen times and a little over 12,000 words. It feels great - and even better, I am really enjoying my story. I will take my little bits of inspiration and writing as they come - one day hopefully I will be able to regularly schedule writing time. I can imagine a future like that, but right now? A hundred words here, three hundred there, and at the end of it, it's still writing and it still makes me a writer. 