---
layout: post
title: New Year, New Agenda
----

I have a bookshelf in my childhood bedroom filled with old agendas, from high school, college, and the years after. There's even one from elementary school, with a Hello Kitty unicorn on the front of it, though it is I guess more of a diary than an agenda. My grandmother used to keep those 5-year journals, where on one page, you would have a five years of say March first, and there would only be a couple of lines for each year. I found it inspiring, that she was so consistent, and that each year was about the same - so-and-so visited, the crops or garden were good (she was a farmer's wife), the kids are growing, etc. Now that I'm older and the years are passing so quickly and yet so dully at times too, I find it also somewhat depressing. Not to judge her, it's the same for all of us more or less, and, compared to previous generations of humans, we're lucky to have such consistent security and so on.. but it's also kinda of like "Oh, that's not what I meant at all." Yikes. Anyhow, back to the point, journals and diaries and agendas are more or less the same, but agenda sounds more grown up. Sure it does. 

For the past two years, I've had two agendas - one for writing and one for general life. The writing ones are often blank for days or weeks at a time, but then I'll read something great or make some big plans or be actually, gasp, writing, and then I love my writing agenda. This year, I have three time-keepers (maybe that's a better general name? No?) - a desk calendar, for daily stuff and reminders and keeping track of various projects, a small agenda to keep in my purse or backpack, ready to be consulted at a moment's notice since I am so clearly in demand as a social butterfly, and lastly, a big spiral-bound agenda, Brazilian it seems, exclusively for the writing part of my life. 2015, let's do it.

"But what is more to the point is my belief that the habit of writing thus for my own eye only is good practice. It loosens the ligaments. Never mind the misses and the stumbles. " - Virginia Woolf [link](http://www.brainpickings.org/2013/01/25/virginia-woolf-on-keeping-a-diary/)