---
layout: post
title: Money
---

It's funny - a couple of years ago, I started thinking I should write because it was a way to make money that made sense with my current situation and me being who I am, specifically a lifelong bookworm. Now though, I've kinda reconciled myself to the idea that probably I won't make any money off of my writing. And so, I have a plan B in terms of what to live on, something that has nothing to do with books, but this plan A is still going strong, stronger even, because I have discovered I really like to write. I like to dream things up and embellish them and see where I can add this twist and that idea and so on. I really really like that. I feel like I'm understanding more about myself, the things I like. It feels like my brain is being organized and expanded too, like a childish curiosity has been found again. 

The idea of someone like what I write - wow, that idea is very appealing. It doesn't even have to be many people, no. This past year I've read some really great books that have a surprisingly small group of admirers compared to what I think they should have. I don't understand it, but in a way, it's reassured me. Logically I know that the size of your readership doesn't matter, popularity doesn't matter, etc but it's easy to fall into that trap anyhow. More and more I just think, oh if I could just publish some really good short stories in venues I admire, if I could just be a member of SFWA, if I could self-publish a few books and make a teeny amount each month off of that, but have a good reputation.. oh that would be something! 

Of course, I'd love more - I'd love to be able to travel to conferences once a year, like ReaderCon and World Fantasy and all that, and of course I'd love to be super popular and a billionaire and blah blah blah, but really, I just want to be read. And then I want someone to feel the way I do when I read something very good. That would be amazing and enough.

