---
layout: post
title: Great Endings
---

So after all that high praise for the McCracken book, having finished it now, I gotta say the ending was not nearly as good as the beginning. That happens a lot. Why is that? How much of it has to do with me as a reader? After all, a book is at least half of what the reader brings to it - their expectations, their mood, their familiarity with literature and genre and history, where they are in their own life, old or young or whatever, etc etc. How much of it has to do with the writer getting tired? Or maybe dealing with publishing deadlines and pressure? Then how much has to do with the structure of the story? With readers always wanting happy endings, tied in a pretty neat bow? It's so hard to tell - all I know is by the end, I thought poor giant, and eek, ugh, predatory librarian who just insinuated herself into his life, lied to him, and tricked him and others. Understandable, somewhat, but not someone I particularly liked or want to revisit. Do I just insist on morally good characters? People who are all that is fair and just? I don't think so.. but I want people to at least *try* to be good, to at least be honest with themselves when they've done wrong, especially if it's a great wrong, like in death, and birth and all that. 

Anyhow, this book aside, how does one keep a great beginning going all the way to a great ending? Some reviews complained about the book, saying there was no tension, as we knew practically from page one that James, the giant, died. I liked the non-linear structure of the book - it was the writing and the insights and the odd relationship that interested me. Maybe the problem was that after James died, I didn't care what happened - like I said in the last post, I didn't really care what happened to the librarian. And then she did some dubious-at-best stuff, and then I really just wanted to finish the book. Get it done with. I wonder if the writing really did change, or if I just didn't want to linger and so I didn't see the gems that I did see in the beginning of the book. Maybe there's no general formula for keeping a great beginning good all the way to the end. That's probably the hard truth. So I keep going back to this particular book - maybe it was that the narrator didn't seem to change at all. Perhaps that's because she was re-telling the story, decades later. I just expected mroe wisdom from her, I guess, especially after all she went through. She was dispensing it left and right in the beginning, I loved that, but then at the story got more shocking and at the same time, more mundane, the revelations ended. Maybe she was just a tired human being, who had lived through a lot. Maybe I'm being too hard on her. 

Ahh, it's all fiction, all imaginary and yet it gets under my skin. Ultimately, that is why I read and that is why I want to write.

